 # Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV) vs. Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEV) vs. Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV) for The Average Consumers And National Delivery Applications
 ## Kevin Li 
 
 Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV), Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEV), and Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV) are types of electric vehicles that are currently being developed and tested in the market. The main difference between these is influenced by their battery's functionality, purpose, and capacity. HEV's have a small battery that is mostly charged by the engine, PHEV's have a larger battery that is mostly charged by the engine AND by an external power source, and BEV's have a large battery that is charged fully by an external power source. The purpose of this paper is to compare and contrast the differences between HEV's, PHEV's, and BEV's, and to determine which type of electric vehicle is best for the average consumer and for national delivery applications. We will dive into details about these three types of vehicles and compare them in terms of cost, performance, and environmental impact.

 Before reading Bill Gates’ book “How to Avoid a Climate Change”, I was an avid supporter of BEV's for its' efficiency and effect on the environment. Tesla was high on my interest list in 2018, and companies such as Lucid Motors and Rivian were quickly innovating their fleet of BEV's. After reading Bill's book, I realized the limits and restrictions of lithium-ion batteries, and have gone against my original argument. As I’ve done some more research on them, I want to show how HEV'S and PHEV's were (and maybe still are) the missing step in the world’s transition from internal combustion engines to fully-lithium-ion battery-powered electric vehicles, and how they are dominating the competition against BEV's in terms of factors in cost, efficiency, and effect on the environment.